Ralsei is a Darkner and one of the main characters of Deltarune. As the third hero, Ralsei wishes to support Kris and Susie as foretold in the Prophecy. Ralsei first appears in Castle Town, where he wishes to inform the two Heroes of Light of their destiny.

Ralsei is the party's support and healer, as he can use MAGIC to aid in a SPARE, or cast healing spells. Of the three, he has the highest Magic stat, but the lowest Attack and max HP. During an encounter, Ralsei wields his scarf in combat.
Profile
Appearance

Ralsei is a short Darkner. During Chapter 1, Ralsei's pointed green hat covers his horns, and conceals most of his features in shadow, though the tips of his ears appear unkempt. Ralsei wears round green glasses, a pink scarf, and a long, green cloak with a black heart in the center.
Ralsei face no glasses.png
Ralsei without glasses.

At the end of Chapter 1, Ralsei's face is revealed. He resembles a Boss Monster, and his face is similar to Asriel's Undertale counterpart, with the exception of glasses, pink shaded horns, and pink fur accents. Without his glasses, his eyes are visibly pink-colored with detailed eyelashes and what appears to be pink eyeshadow.

In Chapter 2, certain details of Ralsei's robe change compared to his Chapter 1 appearance. The sleeves on Ralsei's robe are black, the edges become more uniform rather than appearing tattered, and the emblem on his chest appears to change from a heart to an inverted spade. The latter matches early concept art by Temmie Chang. This element is only present on some of his sprites, with most of his in-battle sprites and some of his overworld sprites reverting to a heart emblem.

When downed in battle, Ralsei disappears, leaving only his clothes on the ground.
Personality

Ralsei is very humble and kind, showing genuine care for the well-being of his friends to the point of selflessness. At the beginning of Chapter 1, Ralsei tries his best to befriend Kris and Susie in order to fulfill the Prophecy with them. Trying to be on good terms, he shows reluctance at getting angry and appears disappointed when Kris or Susie act mean. Nevertheless, Ralsei remains convinced that they have good in them and that fighting is not necessary in this world. His naivety almost costs him his life when he accepts King's fake-out surrender and heals him, allowing him to betray and defeat them. Ralsei learns from this to not always be so trustful of others.

Ralsei enjoys baking cakes, especially for his friends. This caring side sometimes shows up when he encourages Susie and Kris to do their homework, emphasizing the importance of education, indicating his responsible nature. Despite his occasionally bossy behavior, he is prone to being the one bossed around, especially by Susie. He becomes flustered when receiving gifts or affection, most likely due to his past isolation.

Although gentle and shy, Ralsei is equally courageous, as he seldom retreats in the face of danger and displays no fear in life-threatening situations.

Though hints of this appear earlier, Chapter 3 and 4 heavily emphasize his need to be useful to Kris and Susie, as well as his generally low self-worth. He expects to be abandoned by Kris and Susie when they manage to make friends in the Light World, and thinks his sadness over the prospect is selfish. He also encourages fellow Darkners to prioritize the feelings of Lightners over their own. Both Kris and Susie have moments where they affirm that his feelings are important and promise to stay his friends.

Ralsei also differs from other Darkners in that he is able to survive in any Dark World without turning to stone. He is also aware of the connection between the Dark and Light Worlds, as he knows about the unused classroom and its connection to the Card Kingdom.

Ralsei appears to use British or Australian English, using words such as "lift" to refer to an elevator,[2] and "fancy" or "chuffed" to refer to liking something.[3][4]
Etymology

Ralsei's name comes from a main character named Ralse of a game that was made by Toby's eldest brother.[5] His name is also an anagram of "Asriel," who he shares a similar appearance, title, and pacifist personality with.
Main Story
History

Before Ralsei meets Kris and Susie, he lived alone in Castle Town, and did not have subjects despite his title of prince. It is unclear if other inhabitants ever existed at some point. Ralsei is aware of the Prophecy, and has spent time rehearsing it[6] while waiting for Kris and Susie.
Chapter 1
Ralsei screenshot cloaked.png
Ralsei greeting Kris and Susie in his cloak.

When Kris and Susie arrive, Ralsei greets them at the front of his castle. He is initially obscured in a cloak, which resembles the River Person in Undertale. Ralsei informs them of his name and role, and that he wishes to tell the two of their destiny. Kris can choose to listen or not, though Ralsei later gets knocked away by Lancer. Both options transfer via Chapter 1 Completion FILE.

    If Kris agrees, Ralsei recites a synopsis of the prophecy. He appreciates that they listened, and is confident the two Lightners can save the world. He asks if they accept their fate.
    If Kris declines, Ralsei becomes disappointed, and admits he should not have been rehearsing it. After he gets knocked away by Lancer, he tries to offer to retell the prophecy, though Susie disregards him.

After Lancer flees, Ralsei expresses concern for the two. At Susie's request, Ralsei takes off his cloak. He properly introduces himself, and is delighted to become friends with them. However, Susie departs on her own. Ralsei approaches Kris and admits that he has waited his entire life for this moment, and is glad to meet them. He assumes Susie went southeast, and lets Kris lead.

At the training area, Ralsei eagerly offers to teach Kris about encounters via the Dummy, including about how the SOUL functions in a battle.[7] Whether or not Kris agrees, Ralsei gives Kris a Manual afterwards, and reminds them it is in their inventory. At the Great Door, Ralsei emphasizes his belief that Kris's choices are important, and suggests that they should avoid FIGHTing. Ralsei assumes Kris may be overwhelmed, and quickly apologizes. Regardless of Kris's response, Ralsei reassures them. As Kris exits, Ralsei follows and closes the Great Door, and the two enter Card Kingdom.
Ralsei screenshot Hathy flatter.png
Ralsei explaining the team imbalance to Lancer.

While exploring the Field, Ralsei gives Kris advice if they struggle with any puzzles. Ralsei and Kris also discover Susie's onslaught, which includes the Broken Cake and the clobbered Jigsawries. The latter causes Ralsei to worry and suggest that they stop her. The two also come across Lancer multiple times, who fails to antagonize them. Upon seeing Lancer's Hathy troops, Ralsei offers to explain why his troops are imbalanced.

Past the Second Clock Puzzle, Ralsei and Kris finally find Susie. Ralsei reasons that they should all be together, and emphasizes that only Kris can seal Dark Fountains.[8] Once Susie agrees, he proclaims cuing Fanfare (from Rose of Winter). In the next area, Ralsei notices C.Round blocking the path, and realizes Susie did not have a battle tutorial. He asks Kris to include Susie in an ACT, though Susie FIGHTs instead. Ralsei tries to converse with Susie to emphasize pacifism, and notices she does not listen. Thus, he asks Kris to try to Warn other Darkners.
Ralsei screenshot calling Susie out.png
Ralsei calls Susie out for her violent behavior.

At the Great Board, Ralsei chimes in and recommends that the party should have a team name. He adds a neat paper to Lancer's bucket, which has a lengthy name.[9] If it is chosen, Susie complains about it being lengthy, and recommends "The Fun Gang" instead. This option transfers.

Near Great Board's end, the party finds C. Round, who transforms into K. Round. In battle, Ralsei praises Kris for bowing as he notices the crown becomes loose, and asks Susie to partake. If K. Round heals, Ralsei protests. Post battle, Ralsei gently admonishes Susie for FIGHTing, and acknowledges Susie's past actions. He reminds her that she is a hero, and asks her to start acting as one. After Susie teams up with Lancer, Ralsei assumes he was too critical, and asks Kris to be kind to her before they exit the area.

While exploring the Forest, Ralsei and Kris find Susie and Lancer, who claim themselves as the "DARK" team name Kris chose. He asks about their proclaimed evil plans, though quickly apologizes when they admit it is a work in progress. Ralsei instead gets teased by Susie and Lancer, though he remains polite to them. He observes Susie and Lancer's growing friendship, to which he encourages when Lancer asks for help in creating the Thrash Machine. The design choice transfers to Chapter 2.
Vs. Lancer soundtrack.png
Kris and Ralsei battling Susie and Lancer, as Vs. Lancer plays.

At the Maze entrance, Ralsei wonders if Susie wants to be back on the team, to which she declines. Kris can also interact with Lancer, which causes Ralsei to ask about the Thrash Machine. Inside the Maze, if Kris follows Lancer, Ralsei suggests they probably should not follow him. He also apologizes when Susie notices Lancer is not with them, and suggests that Kris should not follow Susie either.

Once they exit the Maze, Ralsei is surprised to see the replica, or an altered Thrash Machine, which Lancer and Susie explode. Ralsei tries to reason with Susie that she cannot return home without them. Instead, Susie claims whoever loses, must join the winners. Regardless of the result, the two parties are united, with Lancer now siding with them. After Susie complains about her hunger, Ralsei offers to bake her a cake if she stops making fun of him, but she declines and laughs at him.
Ralsei screenshot elevator.png
Ralsei assures Susie that he and Kris would be happy if she ACTed with them.

Lancer then turns his back on the party and sends a troop of Rudinn Rangers to jail them in the Card Castle dungeon. After waking up in the same cell as Kris, Ralsei asks them to find a way out. After they fail to do so, they hear Susie, who has managed to escape. While she looks for a way out, Ralsei tells Kris to imagine what she could be doing. They are eventually freed by Susie and the three take the elevator to go to the next castle floor. In the elevator, Susie tells Ralsei that she is willing to listen to him and resort to ACTing, much to Ralsei's delight. Despite now being on better terms, Susie does still find joy in teasing Ralsei. For example, during the second encounter with King Round, she defeats it by throwing Ralsei at its crown until it falls off.
Friendship soundtrack.png
Ralsei bids farewell to Kris and Susie at the end of their adventure.

Arriving at the roof of the castle, the party finally meets King, the guardian of the Dark Fountain who wants to rule over the Lightners. Ralsei tries to talk him out of fighting but King does not listen and starts a battle. When Ralsei tries to reason with King in-battle, the latter is amused by his naivety and simply laughs it off. After being defeated, King surrenders and apologizes for what he did, asking to solve their conflicts peacefully. Ralsei accepts his surrender and asks to befriend him, which King agrees to. Ralsei then heals King, but he immediately throws a surprise attack at the party and attempts to kill them, before being finally stopped either by Lancer or Ralsei depending on if the player has harmed any enemy or not (with the exception of the battle with the Dummy, Lancer (and also with Susie) and Jevil).

In the aftermath, Ralsei apologizes to Susie for thinking he could solve this fight peacefully as he realizes he put everyone in danger by buying into the surrender of King. Susie forgives him as she also learned that constant violence is not the answer either. Now that the Fountain is accessible, Ralsei tells Kris and Susie to go seal it, but before that, he bids them farewell and takes off his hat, revealing his face much to Susie's surprise. He promises to bake her a cake at her return, and she promises to be nicer to him.
Chapter 2
Ralsei screenshot reunion.png
Ralsei overjoyed to see Kris and Susie again.

The next day, after Kris and Susie come back to Castle Town, they meet Ralsei again, who tells them that it felt like a long time since last seeing them, due to the fact that he has never had friends before so he has never had to wait for them to come back either. Susie asks where everyone is and Ralsei tells Kris to go to the unused classroom to the east of the storage closet, gather everything and bring it back to the Dark World.

After Kris returns and all the Dark World citizens appear, Ralsei takes Susie and Kris up to his castle, showing them their rooms in the castle. He tells them that they could go there no matter what is happening outside. Once Kris is prepared to leave, Susie brings up that she does not want to do their group project, to which Ralsei responds with "banishing" them from the kingdom until the project is done, believing that school is important.
Ralsei screenshot Cyber World arrival.png
Ralsei explains how he learned of the Cyber World's presence.

In the Library, Kris and Susie find a new Dark World called the Cyber World, they meet Queen who has kidnapped Noelle and attempted to get rid of the two by sending Werewires to fight them. Ralsei suddenly shows up and pacifies the Werewires. Somehow having learned about this new Dark World, he joins the party on their journey to seal this new Fountain and save Noelle.

Traveling the Cyber Field, they encounter Queen, who challenges them at an arcade game. As Kris is too short to reach the controls, Ralsei assists them by letting them use him as a stool.

Later, they encounter Sweet Cap'n Cakes, a group of rebels who mistake the party for Queen's minions and initiate a battle with them. Ralsei suggests Kris to order the party to dance to distract the rebels from fighting them, but they are unable to make them all dance at the same time. Susie points out to Ralsei that she does not need Kris's orders to dance and teaches him to dance by himself. They eventually succeed and befriend the trio.
Berdly screenshot pre coaster battle.png
Ralsei trying to reason with Berdly, as Berdly plays.

Later, the party finds three roller-coasters themed after themselves. Ralsei suggests riding them to reach the Dark Fountain, but during their ride, they meet Queen waiting for them and sending Berdly to fight. After winning the battle, Queen tells the party that the roller-coaster is not finished before letting them crash into Cyber City's Trash Zone down below.

After landing into Trash Zone, Susie is hurt and Ralsei asks her if she wants him to check. She declines but he does it anyway, using a healing spell by hugging her. Ralsei then proposes to teach her his healing spell, and she accepts. Before leaving the Trash Zone, Ralsei informs Kris about adjusting their inventory, to which Susie comments that it seems like useful information.

Entering the city, the path splits in a fork. Ralsei asks Kris with whom they want to go but Susie thinks it is her time to decide and goes with Ralsei while Kris continues alone.
Normal Route

Later, Kris sees Ralsei eating cotton candy with Susie. Ralsei and Susie spend a lot of time together off-screen, during which Ralsei teaches her how to cast a healing spell.
Acid Tunnel of Love soundtrack.png
Ralsei and Kris traversing the acid lake, as Acid Tunnel of Love plays.

Ralsei and Susie eventually reunite with Kris and, after a couple of puzzles, reach Queen's Mansion. At the entrance, Queen captures Kris, Susie, Berdly and Noelle but does not have a cage for Ralsei, making him her butler instead. After Kris, Susie and Berdly break free from their rooms thanks to Lancer, Susie brings Lancer to Ralsei to heal his sudden illness, but Lancer turns to stone and Ralsei explains that he is not compatible with this Dark World and must be sent back to Castle Town. Berdly asks Susie to follow him to save Noelle, leaving Ralsei alone with Kris.

Ralsei and Kris ride on a floating swan to travel through Queen's acid lake. During the ride, they discuss his relationship with Kris and Susie. After a fight with Rouxls Kaard, they reach the end of the acid lake where they take a photo. After the ride, Ralsei asks Kris to close their eyes and imagine what Susie could be doing.

After Susie reunites with them by landing on Ralsei, they set off to defeat Queen. After a fight that ends when Berdly is unplugged from the wire Queen uses to control him, she runs away to her mecha, GIGA Queen, which she uses to attack the party. With the help of Berdly and all the Darkners they recruited, they create a giant Thrash Machine so they can beat her. After the fight, Berdly, who has turned his back on her after being unplugged, decides to create his own Dark World, as he learned from Queen that any Lightner can do so, but Ralsei interrupts him and informs everyone about the Roaring. Queen admits she was unaware of it and apologizes for antagonizing the party. Ralsei tells Queen about Castle Town while Kris and Susie go to seal the Dark Fountain.

Ralsei is later encountered in Castle Town, after Kris has re-populated the Town with recruits from the Cyber World.
Weird Route

Later, he waits with Susie in front of Queen's Mansion for Kris. Queen is not there to capture anyone, due to the Mansion being overtaken by Spamton. When entering the Mansion, Rouxls Kaard has already turned to stone, at which point Ralsei explains to Susie about Darkners being incompatible with foreign Dark Worlds.

When they arrive at the rooftop, Susie stops at Noelle's bedroom to check on her. Ralsei asks Kris if they wonder what they could be doing, but Kris does not reply even after Ralsei insists. Susie comes out soon afterwards, so the player does not get to see the scene between Susie and Noelle. Susie reluctantly tells Ralsei that she convinced Noelle her presence in the Cyber World is only a dream, and tells Kris she will explain to them further, much to Ralsei's irritation.

When encountering Queen, who is already in her giant robot, Ralsei explains the Roaring to her, skipping the battle altogether. Making peace with Queen, Ralsei explains to her about the new life he has to offer in Castle Town, leaving Kris to seal the Dark Fountain all alone.
Chapter 3

At the start of Chapter 3, Ralsei senses the creation of another Dark Fountain and joins Kris and Susie in the TV World. He and Susie talk about movies and the festival, which Ralsei is unable to experience due to being a Darkner. He explains the nature of Darkners to Kris and Susie and how he and other Darkners turn back into objects in the Light World, preventing him from being their real life friend. He also encourages Susie and Kris to find "real friends," describing himself as an object and someone they do not need to worry about. When Susie objects to his self image, they are interrupted by Tenna and invited to star in his show. Ralsei is more open to joining than Susie, and encourages everyone to participate because he still wants to have fun with them, despite being unable to go to the festival.
The Legend of Tenna screenshot.png
Ralsei playing The Legend of Tenna with Kris and Susie, as Board Clear! plays.

During the Desert Board, Ralsei is inexperienced with video games and opts to follow Kris's lead instead of exploring independently. He also reads the game's instruction manual, learning that his game avatar has the ability to turn into a block to solve puzzles. He and Susie banter while playing, and she picks him up and throws him in-game at multiple points. While solving Quiz Sections, he and Susie try to pick the same answers that Kris does. During the Cooking Show, Ralsei wears a chef outfit and dances while preparing food for Kris to collect. After completing the First Round, Ralsei is excited at the team's victory, having enjoyed playing and looking forward to the Second Round. Before starting the Second Board Susie wants to talk to Tenna, but Ralsei stops Kris and asks to see what Susie is doing instead of following.

During the Island Board, Ralsei also follows Kris, but ends up briefly playing as their avatar after Susie shuffles everyone's controllers around. He seems overwhelmed and objects at first, stating that he "isn't supposed to be a player one" but ends up enjoying the role and photography mechanics, even taking one of the Grand Photos. He acts as the band's singer in the Lightners Live game, though he censors the lyrics of Raise Up Your Bat while performing. While again excited by the audience reception, he is not looking forward to another round, thinking the party should prioritize sealing the Dark Fountain.

If Kris enters the backstage to complete the second stage of the Original Game, Ralsei busies himself by playing an RPG in the Green Room, apparently not fighting anything in it.
Cowboy Minigame screenshot.png
Ralsei as a horse in the Cowboy Minigame, as TV WORLD plays.

When exploring the Parental Lock Rooms, Ralsei can be asked how he is doing when he prompts Kris to check on Susie. He reflects on enjoying the games, but is still sad that he cannot join Kris and Susie at the festival. He then asks Kris to buy Susie a treat in the Light World and tell her it is from him. The party ends up finding Toriel in the Cold Place and are captured by Tenna in an attempt to force them to play a third round. Ralsei becomes visibly downtrodden during the games, insisting that they should be dealing with the Fountain instead of playing. He, Susie, and Kris end up escaping and exploring the TV World afterwards. In areas where the team has to play the Cowboy Minigame, he acts as the horse Susie and Kris ride on, wearing a green horse costume.

If Kris completes the third stage of the Original Game, Ralsei will continue playing the RPG, having made it to Level 2. He is embarrassed over getting so wrapped up in it, and Susie tells Kris that Ralsei was "actually RAGING" at one part of the game.

After the party's final confrontation with Tenna, Ralsei empathizes with Tenna's need to be useful and liked, but responds to his fears by stating that all Darkners become obsolete at some point. He voices his belief that Tenna should focus on the smiles he used to bring to Lightners instead of feeling despair over his current situation, as that would only worry them, which Ralsei views as antithetical to a Darkner's purpose. Susie interrupts Ralsei again and states that Tenna does not need to feel useless because she and Kris will find someone who wants him, again opposing Ralsei's negative self-image and consequent outlook on Darkners. She also reassures Ralsei directly that "No one is gonna get thrown away."

Tenna is then attacked by the Knight, starting the final fight of the Chapter. Ralsei's attempt to talk to the Knight has him begging it to stop before it brings about the Roaring, to no avail. The team eventually gets downed during the fight, allowing the Knight to escape with Undyne. Talking to Ralsei a final time has him assuring Kris he will be fine, and for them to do what they need to. If the Knight is defeated, however, Ralsei will instead lament that their struggle is only beginning.
Chapter 4
Ralsei screenshot room.png
Ralsei saying he does not need his own room, as Lost Girl plays.

After attending Church, Kris and Susie can optionally visit Ralsei in Castle Town. There he reveals that he combined Susie's and Kris's rooms for an impromptu tea party, which he set up with help from Swatch. During the tea ceremony, Ralsei mentions that he never ate cake before, because he only bakes it for the Lightners. This causes Susie to make him try a slice, which he really enjoys. While exploring the newly opened Third Floor of Ralsei's castle, Susie takes notice of his closed-off room and barges in against his protests, revealing it to be completely empty. Ralsei explains that he feels like he does not deserve a room or personal belongings, since it does not aid the Lightners. Susie objects to this and promises to find furniture and decorations for him, running off to find the first piece of furniture. Ralsei then asks Kris if it is really alright for him to express himself, as he recently started to develop his own opinions, but is still unsure if that is acceptable for a Darkner to have. Kris reassures Ralsei regardless of the selected answer.

Later, Ralsei once again joins the party in the new Dark World, the Dark Sanctuary. He finds them after Kris and Susie crash through a glass window, which injures Kris. He rebuffs Susie's attempts to heal them, unintentionally discouraging her, and does it himself before running off, a behavior which he repeats multiple times in the Dark Sanctuaries.

When Susie asks during exploration, he explains that the glass panes on the walls depict the Prophecy, and that his version of the Legend as relayed in Chapter 1 was merely a summary.

After solving the Piano Puzzle and entering the Dark Zone, Susie gets Ralsei to admit that he memorized the whole Prophecy, but he assumed it would be better for him not to reveal too much of it. This conversation is cut short as the party falls from a great height and gets injured, with Ralsei once again healing everyone before Susie gets the chance to. After defeating Jackenstein, Ralsei repeatedly tries to heal the latter's headache, but is unsuccessful. When Susie then effectively uses her healing magic on Jackenstein, Ralsei praises her, realizing that he was only healing the outside instead of the pain's source; this restores Susie's confidence in her healing abilities.

While Susie is looking for the sheet music for the Grand Piano puzzle, Ralsei again asks Kris to stay behind and close their eyes to imagine what she is doing, but immediately leaves upon doing so. Susie asks where he was, but the question remains unanswered.

During the confrontation with the Knight at the end of the Dark Sanctuary, Ralsei rushes after Susie and comforts her after it manages to flee, suggesting that Kris and her should seal the Fountain to buy time.
Ralsei screenshot overwhelmed with knowledge.png
Ralsei apologizing and crying after Susie confronts him, as 13am plays.

Unlike in the other Dark Worlds, Ralsei joins the party late in the 2nd Sanctuary, only arriving at the end of the Sound of Justice encounter, where he ends the fight by shattering the statue. He then explains that Lightners' remains can only be revived as Darkners under very specific circumstances, which is why Susie's Fountain could not bring back the old man. This causes Susie to blow up at him in frustration, asking why he would not tell them such crucial information earlier. Ralsei then breaks down, saying that he never wanted to know as much as he does, and how he feels unsure of what is appropriate to say or not. He also explains his habit of walking ahead in parts of the Dark Sanctuaries; it is an attempt to prevent Kris and Susie from seeing the final part of the Prophecy. Susie feels bad for him and promises to let Ralsei walk ahead because she does not need to see the final part, but also reaffirms that Ralsei is part of the team.

When confronting the Knight in the 3rd Sanctuary, Ralsei tries to stop them from creating another Fountain in the Dark World. He is unsuccessful, and the team witnesses the birth of a Titan. He then correctly assumes that the Titan will not attack itself and encourages everyone to climb onto the pillar, leading the party to fight against the Titan and its Spawn. Ralsei is noticeably stressed during these encounters, trying to calm himself[10] and screaming at Kris to attack their opponents.[11] Relieved after defeating the Titan, Ralsei's tone immediately changes when he notices that Susie already went ahead. He rushes after her, but is too late to prevent her from seeing the final part of the Prophecy. He starts crying and apologizing to Susie, but she reassures him that there is nothing to be sorry for and wipes his tears away, smearing his cheek with blood. When talking to Ralsei afterwards, he comments on how he believed that not revealing the Prophecy might change it, but that it is hard to keep a positive outlook. While Susie's words encourage him to keep going, he is not convinced a good ending is possible. He then bids Kris goodbye, wanting to see them tomorrow, and the day after, for more adventures.
Relationships
Kris

Ralsei deeply cares about Kris. He wants to befriend Kris in order to create the trio of heroes mentioned in the prophecy, which he wishes to fulfill. Ralsei is very respectful and friendly to Kris, even to the point of pretending that he is okay with being hit. Even if Kris acts rudely towards Ralsei, he will not be offended by them, and may even blame himself. Ralsei also appears to be easily embarrassed or intimidated by Kris, as it is easy for them to make him blush, as seen when Kris stands close to him. They are a duo for the half of Chapter 1, before Susie changes her ways and joins them again.

They have more moments with each other during Chapter 2 and spend more time as a team of two when Susie temporarily splits up from them.
Susie

Ralsei wants to be friends with Susie for the same reason he wants to befriend Kris. However, Susie at first does not appreciate the way Ralsei tries to coach her, as he constantly encourages her to be nice to others. Susie eventually abandons the party and forms a rivalry with Ralsei. However, this rivalry is more childish than legitimately bitter; Susie tends to mock him during her time with Lancer. Ralsei, on the other hand, seems to regret having offended Susie and still cares about her. After Susie joins the party again, she eventually decides to stop making fun of Ralsei.

They interact more during Chapter 2, and Ralsei even heals Susie after she falls off the trash pile in Cyber City. Later, when they split up from Kris, they hang out as a duo and teach some things to each other, slowly improving their relationship.

In Chapter 3 and 4, Susie and Ralsei's relationship develops further, with Ralsei frequently asking Kris to make sure that Susie is happy and has company. When Ralsei tells Susie he is not actually real and encourages her to make real friends, Susie refuses to believe it and is determined to find a way to continue spending time with him.
Lancer

Ralsei is not intimidated by Lancer; he finds his antics amusing and sometimes "a bit anticlimactic." In an attempt to make fun of Ralsei, Lancer calls him names like "sweet basket of eggs," "toothpaste boy," "Sweet Little Peas We Love to See," and other names along those lines. Even though their rivalry is not very strong to begin with, the two officially become friends after Lancer and Susie lose the fight against the team. When Kris and Susie are preparing to leave, he tells them to say goodbye to Ralsei for him, even though Ralsei is not leaving, indicating that their rivalry has completely faded. They have more interactions during Chapter 2 and Ralsei even makes a room for him in his castle (along with the ones he made for Kris and Susie).
Cameos
Chapter 1 Spoiler-Free Trailer

Ralsei appears a few times in the DELTARUNE Chapter 1 Spoiler-Free Trailer. However, his face is censored by an Annoying Dog, and during an encounter against a Rudinn, his name is instead "Dogsei." In front of Castle Town, Ralsei is completely covered in multiple Annoying Dogs.
Newsletter

In ISSUE 5 - Winter 2024 of the Newsletter, three random Valentine's Day cards were included in the email version of the Newsletter. Ralsei has a total of four different Valentine's Day cards. Two are common, and two are rare.

The first is a common card. Ralsei compliments the recipient and wishes to be their Valentines.[12] The second is a common card meant for Susie. Ralsei expresses happiness that Susie enjoys the card and candy he included. He asks her to stop eating all the Valentines cards to check if they are food. Susie vandalizes the card at end.[13] This is similar to what occurs when inspecting the Cyberpedia in Chapter 2 a second time.

The third is a rare card for Lancer, though Ralsei admits it is actually a secret note. He pleads for Lancer's help, as Susie has been trying to get him to pretend to "smoke" a giant rolled tube made of Valentines papers.[14] The fourth is a rare card for the recipient. He admits there are Valentines up on the shelf, and offers to let the recipient stand on his back.[15] This is similar to Ralsei offering to let Kris stand on his back with "Stool Forme" in Chapter 2.
In Battle
Stats
Main article: Stats
LV 	HP 	Attack 	Defense 	Magic 	Guts
1 	70 	8 	2 	7 	0
2 	100-140 	10-13 	2 	9-12 	0
3 	140-166 	12-13 	2 	11-12 	1
4 	180-210 	15-17 	2 	14-16 	0
Title
Main article: Title#Ralsei

Ralsei's title changes throughout the game.

    During Chapter 1, Ralsei's title depends on his current equipment.
        At the start of the game, Ralsei's title is Lonely Prince. "Dark-World being. Has no subjects."
        If the Ragger is equipped, it changes to Prickly Prince. "Deals damage with his rugged scarf."
        If the Dainty Scarf is equipped, it changes to Fluffy Prince. "Weak, but has nice healing powers."
    During Chapter 2, Ralsei's title changes to Dark Prince. "Dark-World being. Has friends now."
    After the photo during the swan boat ride in Chapter 2, Ralsei's title changes depending on the pose Kris does for the camera:
        If Kris hugs Ralsei, his title changes to Hug Prince. "Receives and gives many hugs."
            If Ralsei's title is Hug Prince, after the Spamton NEO fight, when Susie asks Kris if they're okay, Ralsei hugs them if "No" is chosen.
        If Kris gives a peace sign, Ralsei's title changes to Pose Prince. "Poses for photos at times."
        If Kris makes a rude gesture, Ralsei's title changes to Rude Prince. "Friends with a rude gesturer."
        If Kris doesn't pose, Ralsei's title changes to Blank Prince. "Doesn't even have a photo."

Spells
Pacify

    SPARE a tired enemy by putting them to sleep.

    Pacify description

Requires 16% TP. If the enemy is tired or sleepy, Ralsei can cast this spell to instantly SPARE them.

Like the rest of his animations when casting a spell, Ralsei holds his hands together looking down with a yellow aura around him, then looking up holding a yellow sparkle in his hand.
Heal Prayer

    Heavenly light restores a little HP to one party member. Depends on Magic.

    Heal Prayer description

Requires 32% TP. Depending on his Magic stat, he heals

HP[16] for the selected party member.

It can also be used outside of battle by selecting it in the stats menu, but only due to glitches, as TP does not last outside of battle. The most accessible example of this behavior is immediately after the solo battle between Susie and Lancer. The game's TP value is not reset, allowing the spell's use in the overworld up to three times with high enough TP. It heals 100 HP when used in the overworld, and 5 HP per Magic point when used in battle.

When doing this spell, green sparkles emerge on whoever is being healed.
Dual Heal

    Your SOUL shined its power on RALSEI!

    Flavor text when Ralsei uses Dual Heal

Requires 50% TP, and can only be used through Kris's ACT command during the battles against King and Queen. Depending on his Magic stat, Ralsei heals each party member by
HP in Chapter 1[17] and

HP in Chapter 2.[18]

At the end of Chapter 4, Dual Heal returns as a spell performed alongside Susie during the fight against the Titan and its spawn. As both cast it simultaneously, the healing combines both Susie and Ralsei's magic stats, healing

HP[19] for each party member. This can be further boosted by the Blue Ribbon. Its effectiveness is reduced after each use, starting with a further 1.5× multiplier, and decreasing to 1×, then 0.8×, then 0.3×, before finally capping at 0.2×.
R-Action

Unlike other spells, this one does not require any TP. It is a variant of Susie's S-Action where Ralsei does Kris's selected act, much like paired ACTs except that Ralsei can choose to do it with another enemy. In some boss fights, R-Action is replaced with an available act such as "Bump" during the first fight against Berdly, "Loosen"/"Toast" during the Queen fight, or "Snap" during the fight against Spamton NEO. Susie forces Ralsei to learn this spell during the fight against Sweet Cap'n Cakes.

Ralsei bows and stars and hearts come forward like Kris.
FluffyGuard

Requires 16% TP, and is exclusive to the Spamton NEO fight in Chapter 2. A spell that summons two orbiting shields (called "fluff balls" (in a previous version referred to as "tiny Ralsei") spinning around the SOUL, blocking almost any projectiles that comes into contact, but taking damage in the process. Up to a maximum of 4 shields can be active at the same time. Holding down the "[CANCEL]" button will make the shields stop moving, effectively sacrificing the SOUL's movement speed for more consistent protection.
ReviveKris
Ralsei battle cherub.gif
The Ralsei cherub that appears when ReviveKris is used.

Also referred to as "Reviver" in flavor text.[20] This spell is exclusive to the battle with the Titan in Chapter 4, where it requires 16% TP. It will revive Kris at a small percentage of their HP, or heal them by half their Max HP if they are not downed. As Kris is crucial to progressing in and completing the battle, the spell exists to keep them alive. Upon using it, a small angelic Ralsei will appear and pet Kris on the head to heal them, similar to Spamton's "[Press F1 for] HELP" Easter egg. 
